# [Nodemailer](https://nodemailer.com/about/)

1. `Description`: Nodemailer is a module for Node.js applications that simplifies email sending. It was created in 2010 to address the lack of straightforward options for sending email messages in Node.js. Today, it is the default choice for most Node.js users when it comes to email communication.

2. `Installation`: You can install Nodemailer using npm:

```bash
$ npm install nodemailer
```

3. Features:

- Single module with zero dependencies, making the code easily auditable.
- Strong focus on security to prevent remote code execution vulnerabilities.
- Unicode support for using any characters, including emojis.
- Windows support, allowing hassle-free usage from Windows environments.
- Supports both HTML and plain text content in emails.
- Enables adding attachments to messages.
- Supports embedded image attachments for HTML content.
- Secure email delivery using TLS/STARTTLS.
- Offers different transport methods in addition to built-in SMTP support.
- Allows signing messages with DKIM.
- Custom plugin support for manipulating messages.
- Sane OAuth2 authentication.
- Proxies for SMTP connections.
- Written in ES6 code, reducing unintentional memory leaks.
- Provides autogenerated email test accounts from Ethereal.email.

4. Requirements:

- Node.js v6.0.0 or newer.
- Node.js v8.0.0 or newer if you want to use async/await with Nodemailer.

5. Usage:

Create a Nodemailer transporter using SMTP or another transport mechanism.
Set up message options (sender, recipients, subject, content, etc.).
Deliver the message object using the sendMail() method of the transporter.
Example:

```javascript
const nodemailer = require("nodemailer");

const transporter = nodemailer.createTransport({
  host: "smtp.example.com",
  port: 465,
  secure: true,
  auth: {
    user: "YOUR_USERNAME",
    pass: "YOUR_PASSWORD",
  },
});

async function main() {
  const info = await transporter.sendMail({
    from: '"Fred Foo 👻" <foo@example.com>',
    to: "bar@example.com, baz@example.com",
    subject: "Hello ✔",
    text: "Hello world?",
    html: "<b>Hello world?</b>",
  });

  console.log("Message sent: %s", info.messageId);
}

main().catch(console.error);
```

## Create a transporter object:

After installing Nodemailer, you need to create a transporter object. This object is capable of sending emails.

```javascript
let transporter = nodemailer.createTransport(transport[, defaults]);
```

- transporter: An object that can send email.
- transport: The transport configuration object, connection URL, or a transport plugin instance.
- defaults: An object that defines default values for mail options.

1. You only need to create the transporter object once, and you can use it to send multiple emails.

- Send using `SMTP`

For details on setting up an SMTP-based transporter, please refer to the specific configuration details in the documentation.

- Send using a transport plugin

If you prefer to use a transport plugin, you can find setup details in the documentation as well.

- Sending mail

Once you have a transporter object set up, you can use it to send emails:

```javascript
transporter.sendMail(data[, callback]);
```

- data: This parameter defines the mail content. You can configure various options for the email
- content; see "Message Configuration" in the documentation for possible options.
- callback (optional): This is an optional callback function that runs once the message is delivered or if it fails.
- err: The error object if the message fails.
- info: An object that includes the result. The exact format depends on the transport mechanism used.
- info.messageId: Most transports return the final Message-Id value used.
- info.envelope: Includes the envelope object for the message.
- info.accepted: An array returned by SMTP transports (includes recipient addresses accepted by the server).
- info.rejected: An array returned by SMTP transports (includes recipient addresses rejected by the server).
- info.pending: An array returned by Direct SMTP transport, including recipient addresses that were temporarily rejected along with the server response.
- response: A string returned by SMTP transports, including the last SMTP response from the server.
If a message includes several recipients, it is considered sent if at least one recipient is accepted.

If the callback argument is not set, the method returns a Promise object. While Nodemailer itself does not use Promises internally, it wraps the return into a Promise for convenience.

6. Documentation: Nodemailer offers comprehensive documentation and examples to help you make the most of its features.

7. Security Considerations: Nodemailer prioritizes security to prevent vulnerabilities, so it's a reliable choice for email communication in your Node.js applications.

8. Credits: This project is supported by Forward Email, an open-source and privacy-focused email service, and Opensense, a company specializing in email signature management for Office 365 and Google Workspace.

9. License: New-BSD / MIT.